Thank you very much everybody.  We’ve had a great three days at the United Nations in New York.  And this is quite a gathering.  Wow.  It’s a lot of people.  A lot of media.  (Laughter.)

We’ve covered a great deal of territory.  Just left, as you know, Prime Minister Abe of Japan.  We’re starting trade talks with Japan.  They were not willing, for years, to talk trade, and now they’re willing to talk trade.  And I’m sure we’ll make a very good deal.

Just concluded, as you know — two days ago, signed a deal with South Korea — a trade deal.  A tremendous deal with South Korea.  It means a lot of business for our farmers.  We’re opening up for farmers.  We’re opening up for a lot of different groups.

We’re going to be able to sell much more than double the number of automobiles that we were allowed under a deal that was totally defective that was there before.  And so we’re very happy with that.  That deal is actually concluded.

We’re very well along the way with Mexico.  The relationship is very good.  And with Canada, we’ll see what happens.  They’re charging us 300-percent tariffs on dairy products.  We can’t have that.  We can’t have that.

With China, as you know, we put out an announcement today.  They would like to see me lose an election because they’ve never been challenged like this.  But I want to open up China to our farmers and to our industrialists and our companies.  And China is not open, but we’re open to them.  They charge us 25, 35, 55 percent for things, and we charge them nothing in terms of coming into the country.

Cars, they’re at 25 percent.  And we’re at 2 percent and 2.5 percent, and don’t even collect it.  But we collect it now.

So we’re doing very well in our situation with China on trade.  I have a great relationship with the President of China, President Xi.  But it’s got to be a two-way street.  It — for 25 years and longer, it was not.  And trillions and trillions of dollars was taken out of the United States for the benefit of China.  We just can’t have that.  We have to make it fair.

So we’re at $250 billion now, at 25 percent interest.  And a lot of money is coming into our coffers.  And it’s had no impact on our — absolutely, by the way, no impact on our economy, which I said it wouldn’t.

In fact, steel is like the hottest industry there is.  If you look at what happened with steel, we’re charging a 25 percent tariff for the dumpers.  They dump massive amounts of steel.  They want to put the steel companies out of business.  And after they’re out of business, they’ll come in and charge five times more than you ever thought possible.  And we need steel and we need aluminum.  And those industries are doing well.

It’s a privilege to be here at this forum where leaders in business, science, art, diplomacy, and world affairs have gathered for many, many years to discuss how we can advance prosperity, security, and peace.

I’m here today to represent the interests of the American people and to affirm America’s friendship and partnership in building a better world.

Like all nations represented at this great forum, America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear.

Over the past year, we have made extraordinary strides in the U.S.  We’re lifting up forgotten communities, creating exciting new opportunities, and helping every American find their path to the American Dream — the dream of a great job, a safe home, and a better life for their children.

After years of stagnation, the United States is once again experiencing strong economic growth.  The stock market is smashing one record after another, and has added more than $7 trillion in new wealth since my election.  Consumer confidence, business confidence, and manufacturing confidence are the highest they have been in many decades.

Since my election, we’ve created 2.4 million jobs, and that number is going up very, very substantially.  Small-business optimism is at an all-time high.  New unemployment claims are near the lowest we’ve seen in almost half a century.  African American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, and so has unemployment among Hispanic Americans.

The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America.  I’m here to deliver a simple message:  There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States.  America is open for business, and we are competitive once again.

The American economy is by far the largest in the world, and we’ve just enacted the most significant tax cuts and reform in American history.  We’ve massively cut taxes for the middle class and small businesses to let working families keep more of their hard-earned money.  We lowered our corporate tax rate from 35 percent, all the way down to 21 percent.  As a result, millions of workers have received tax cut bonuses from their employers in amounts as large as $3,000.

The tax cut bill is expected to raise the average American’s household income by more than $4,000.  The world’s largest company, Apple, announced plans to bring $245 billion in overseas profits home to America.  Their total investment into the United States economy will be more than $350 billion over the next five years.

Now is the perfect time to bring your business, your jobs, and your investments to the United States.  This is especially true because we have undertaken the most extensive regulatory reduction ever conceived.  Regulation is stealth taxation.  The U.S., like many other countries, unelected bureaucrats — and we have — believe me, we have them all over the place — and they’ve imposed crushing and anti-business and anti-worker regulations on our citizens with no vote, no legislative debate, and no real accountability.

In America, those days are over.  I pledged to eliminate two unnecessary regulations for every one new regulation.  We have succeeded beyond our highest expectations.  Instead of 2 for 1, we have cut 22 burdensome regulations for every 1 new rule.  We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before.  We are creating an environment that attracts capital, invites investment, and rewards production.

America is the place to do business.  So come to America, where you can innovate, create, and build.  I believe in America.  As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their country first also.

But America first does not mean America alone.  When the United States grows, so does the world.  American prosperity has created countless jobs all around the globe, and the drive for excellence, creativity, and innovation in the U.S. has led to important discoveries that help people everywhere live more prosperous and far healthier lives.

As the United States pursues domestic reforms to unleash jobs and growth, we are also working to reform the international trading system so that it promotes broadly shared prosperity and rewards to those who play by the rules.

We cannot have free and open trade if some countries exploit the system at the expense of others.  We support free trade, but it needs to be fair and it needs to be reciprocal.  Because, in the end, unfair trade undermines us all.

The United States will no longer turn a blind eye to unfair economic practices, including massive intellectual property theft, industrial subsidies, and pervasive state-led economic planning.  These and other predatory behaviors are distorting the global markets and harming businesses and workers, not just in the U.S., but around the globe.

Just like we expect the leaders of other countries to protect their interests, as President of the United States, I will always protect the interests of our country, our companies, and our workers.

We will enforce our trade laws and restore integrity to our trading system.  Only by insisting on fair and reciprocal trade can we create a system that works not just for the U.S. but for all nations.

As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries.  This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important.  We have agreements with several of them already. We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all.

My administration is also taking swift action in other ways to restore American confidence and independence.  We are lifting self-imposed restrictions on energy production to provide affordable power to our citizens and businesses, and to promote energy security for our friends all around the world.  No country should be held hostage to a single provider of energy.

America is roaring back, and now is the time to invest in the future of America.  We have dramatically cut taxes to make America competitive.  We are eliminating burdensome regulations at a record pace.  We are reforming the bureaucracy to make it lean, responsive, and accountable.  And we are ensuring our laws are enforced fairly.

We have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we have the best workers in the world.  Energy is abundant and affordable.  There has never been a better time to come to America.

We are also making historic investments in the American military because we cannot have prosperity without security.  To make the world safer from rogue regimes, terrorism, and revisionist powers, we are asking our friends and allies to invest in their own defenses and to meet their financial obligations.  Our common security requires everyone to contribute their fair share.

My administration is proud to have led historic efforts, at the United Nations Security Council and all around the world, to unite all civilized nations in our campaign of maximum pressure to de-nuke the Korean Peninsula.  We continue to call on partners to confront Iran’s support for terrorists and block Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon.

We’re also working with allies and partners to destroy jihadist terrorist organizations such as ISIS, and very successfully so.  The United States is leading a very broad coalition to deny terrorists control of their territory and populations, to cut off their funding, and to discredit their wicked ideology.

I am pleased to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has retaken almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria.  There is still more fighting and work to be done and to consolidate our gains.  We are committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists who want to commit mass murder to our civilian populations.  I want to thank those nations represented here today that have joined in these crucial efforts.  You are not just securing your own citizens, but saving lives and restoring hope for millions and millions of people.

When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our nation.  We will defend our citizens and our borders.  We are also securing our immigration system, as a matter of both national and economic security.

America is a cutting-edge economy, but our immigration system is stuck in the past.  We must replace our current system of extended-family chain migration with a merit-based system of admissions that selects new arrivals based on their ability to contribute to our economy, to support themselves financially, and to strengthen our country.

In rebuilding America, we are also fully committed to developing our workforce.  We are lifting people from dependence to independence, because we know the single best anti-poverty program is a very simple and very beautiful paycheck.

To be successful, it is not enough to invest in our economy.  We must invest in our people.  When people are forgotten, the world becomes fractured.  Only by hearing and responding to the voices of the forgotten can we create a bright future that is truly shared by all.

The nation’s greatness is more than the sum of its production.  A nation’s greatness is the sum of its citizens:  the values, pride, love, devotion, and character of the people who call that nation home.

From my first international G7 Summit, to the G20, to the U.N. General Assembly, to APEC, to the World Trade Organization, and today at the World Economic Forum, my administration has not only been present, but has driven our message that we are all stronger when free, sovereign nations cooperate toward shared goals and they cooperate toward shared dreams.

Represented in this room are some of the remarkable citizens from all over the world.  You are national leaders, business titans, industry giants, and many of the brightest minds in many fields.

Each of you has the power to change hearts, transform lives, and shape your countries’ destinies.  With this power comes an obligation, however — a duty of loyalty to the people, workers, and customers who have made you who you are.

So together, let us resolve to use our power, our resources, and our voices, not just for ourselves, but for our people — to lift their burdens, to raise their hopes, and to empower their dreams; to protect their families, their communities, their histories, and their futures.

That’s what we’re doing in America, and the results are totally unmistakable.  It’s why new businesses and investment are flooding in.  It’s why our unemployment rate is the lowest it’s been in so many decades.  It’s why America’s future has never been brighter.

Today, I am inviting all of you to become part of this incredible future we are building together.

Thank you to our hosts, thank you to the leaders and innovators in the audience.  But most importantly, thank you to all of the hardworking men and women who do their duty each and every day, making this a better world for everyone.  Together, let us send our love and our gratitude to make them, because they really make our countries run.  They make our countries great.

Thank you very much.  You just want massive tax cuts.  That’s what you want.  That’s the only reason you’re going so wild.  (Applause.)

But it’s wonderful to be back in the great state of Indiana.  What a place.  (Applause.)

I want to thank Senator Todd Young, Senator Joe Donnelly, Representative Jackie Walorski, Representative Susan Brooks, and Representative Mike [sic] Messer for joining us today.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much for being here.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)

I also want to thank members of my economic team, Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Director Gary Cohn, for joining us, as well.  We appreciate it.  (Applause.)

Let me begin by saying that our hearts and prayers go out to the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands who are suffering in the wake of yet another catastrophic hurricane.  I mean, their island was virtually destroyed.  Federal agencies are working closely with local partners to help these communities get back on their feet as soon as possible.

Texas, Florida, and Louisiana are doing great, and the recovery process is happening very, very quickly.

I will be going down to Puerto Rico next week to get an on-the-ground briefing about the disaster recovery and to see all of our great first responders and to meet a lot of the people who were so affected by these storms.  We are with you now, I tell them, and we will be there every step of the way until this job is done.  It is truly catastrophic what happened in Puerto Rico.  (Applause.)

And massive amounts of water, food, and supplies, by the way, are being delivered on an hourly basis.  It’s something that nobody has ever seen before from this country, I can tell you that.  And I’m very proud of all of the folks that have worked so hard in FEMA, all of our first responders, all of our police that have gone to the island because their police force has been so badly affected.  And many of their policemen — in fact, most of the police people have lost their homes, and it’s been a tough go.  But we are — we’re going to get it back.

Before we go on to discuss the largest tax cut in our county’s history, I also want to provide a brief update on healthcare.  We have the votes on Graham-Cassidy.  But with the rules of reconciliation, we’re up against a deadline of Friday — two days.  That’s just two days.  And yes-vote senator — we have a wonderful senator, great, great senator — who is a yes vote, but he’s home recovering from a pretty tough situation.  And with so many great features, including all of the block granting, the money to the states, et cetera, et cetera, our healthcare plan is really going to be something excellent.  It’s going to be better managed for the people that it serves.  Having local healthcare representatives is far better than having healthcare managed from Washington, D.C.  Not even a contest.  (Applause.)

And many, many governors, as you also see, have agreed with us and approved it and really look forward to running it properly.  But again, because the reconciliation window is about to close, we have to wait a few months until it reopens before we take a vote.  So we’re getting all of the good signs from Alaska and the others to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And I was hoping this would be put on my desk right after we won the election, and I’d come in and sign.  But it didn’t work that way.  There were a couple of people that — I won’t say anything.  (Laughter.)  But early next year when reconciliation kicks back in, in any event long before the November election, we’re going to have a vote.  And we’re going to be able to get that through, and I think we’ll actually get it through very easily and the time makes it easier.

But speaking of reconciliation, the Republican Senate needs to get rid of the filibuster rule, which is blocking so many great legislative reforms the American people badly want and deserve.  By the way, the Democrats, if they had the opportunity, which hopefully they won’t for many, many years, they would get rid of it on day one.  And most of you know exactly what I’m talking about.

We’re here today in Indiana to announce our framework to deliver historic tax relief to the American People.  (Applause.)

This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity, and I guess it’s probably something I can say that I’m very good at.  I’ve been waiting for this for a long time.  We’re going to cut taxes for the middle class, make the tax code simpler and more fair for everyday Americans, and we are going to bring back the jobs and wealth that have left our country — and most people thought left our country for good.  (Applause.)

We want tax reform that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family, and, yes, tax reform that is pro-American.  (Applause.)  It’s time to take care of our people, to rebuild our nation, and to fight for our great American workers.  (Applause.)

Indiana is a tremendous example of the prosperity that is unleashed when we cut taxes and set free the dreams of our citizens.  This state has claimed a powerful competitive edge built on low taxes and less regulation — and are we cutting regulation?  (Applause.)

And businesses all across the country have taken notice.  In recent years, Indiana has welcomed dozens of companies fleeing high taxes and high-tax states.  Thousands of new jobs and massive capital investment have followed — meaning a better quality of life for the people of Indiana.

All of this is possible because the people of this state have made a decision. They chose to make Indiana competitive again.  They chose, and their choice was so important.  It included electing a governor, who you may have heard of — (laughter) — who signed the largest income tax cut in the state’s history, our very, very terrific person and terrific Vice President, Mike Pence.  (Applause.)

It’s time for Washington to learn from the wisdom of Indiana.  We need Washington to promote American jobs instead of obstructing them.  That is what I have been working to achieve every day since I took office.  That is what I talked about on the campaign trail.

Already, we’re seeing the results of an economic policy that finally puts America first.  (Applause.)  Unemployment is at a 16-year low.  Unemployment for African Americans is near its lowest point since the turn of the millennium.  It’s really a fantastic thing to see.  (Applause.)

Wages are rising.  Optimism among manufacturers has reached all-time highs.  GDP growth last quarter reached 3 percent way ahead of schedule; nobody thought that was going to happen for a long time.  (Applause.)  And this quarter, I believe, would have been better, but the hurricanes will have an impact.  But other than that, it would have been, in my opinion, even better.

Your government is working for you once again, not for the donors, not the special interests, but the hardworking taxpaying citizens of our country.  (Applause.)

America is back on the right track.  And I see so many red hats — Make America Great Again.  That’s what we’re doing — Make America Great Again.  (Applause.)  But our country and our economy cannot take off like they should unless we dramatically reform America’s outdated, complex, and extremely burdensome tax code.  It’s a relic.  We’ve got to change it.  We have to compete — compete with other countries.

The current tax system is a colossal barrier standing in the way of America’s economic comeback because it can be far greater than it’s ever been.  But we’re going to remove that barrier to create the tax system our people finally, finally, finally — and want and deserve.

For several months, my administration has been working closely with Congress to develop a framework for tax reform.  Over the next few months, the House and Senate will build on this framework and produce legislation that will deliver more jobs, higher pay, and lower taxes for middle-class families — for the working man and woman — and for businesses of all sizes.  I look forward — (Applause.)  Thank you.

I look forward to working with Congress to deliver these historic tax cuts and reforms to the American people.  These tax cuts are significant.  There’s never been tax cuts like what we’re talking about.

Our framework is based on four key ideas:  First, we will cut taxes for the everyday, hardworking Americans — the people that work so long, so hard, and they’ve been forgotten.  But they’re not forgotten anymore.  I think we proved that on November 8th.  (Applause.)

Under this framework, the first $12,000 of income earned by a single individual will be tax free, — (applause) — and a married couple won’t pay a dime in taxes on their first $24,000 of income.  So, a married couple — up to $24,000 — can spend their money on their family, on their children, on what they have to do.  So much better.

In other words, more income for more people will be taxed at a rate of zero.  (Applause.)  At this zero percent rate, taxable income will be subject to just three tax rates of 12 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent.

Jonathan Blanton and his wife Jamie from Greentown are here with us today.  Where are they?  Oh, hello, Jonathan.  How are you?  (Applause.)

Jonathan does industrial janitorial work and Jamie works at an auto company.  Together they’re raising four beautiful children, and last year they earned less than $90,000.  Under our tax plan they would have saved more than $1,000, and it could be substantially more.  And that’s just on federal taxes.  So they would have saved at least $1,000.

Middle-income families will save even more money with an increased child tax credit for children under the age of 17, which so many families have been calling for.  (Applause.)

We will eliminate the marriage penalty in the existing credit and expand eligibility to include even more middle-income families.  Greatly expanded.

We’re also expanding the child tax credit because we believe the most important investment our country can make is in our children.  (Applause.)  And this is just one more critical way that we’re targeting relief to working families.

In addition, under our framework, those caring for the elderly loved — and we love these people, but we’re caring, and we take such care of the elderly and other adult dependents — will receive financial relief in the form of a $500 tax credit.  (Applause.)

We’re doing everything we can to reduce the tax burden on you and your family.  By eliminating tax breaks and loopholes, we will ensure that the benefits are focused on the middle class, the working men and women, not the highest-income earners.  (Applause.)

Our framework includes our explicit commitment that tax reform will protect low-income and middle-income households, not the wealthy and well-connected.  They can call me all they want.  It’s not going to help.  I’m doing the right thing, and it’s not good for me.  Believe me.  (Applause.)

But what is good for me — not only as President and legacy — what is good for me is if everything takes off like a rocket ship, like it should have for 20 years.  That’s good for me.  That’s good for everyone.  (Applause.)  And that’s what I think is going to happen.  (Applause.)  And a lot of very wealthy people feel the same way, believe me.

In fact, we are eliminating most itemized deductions that primarily benefit the wealthiest taxpayers.  We’ve also given Congress the flexibility to add an additional top rate on the very highest income earners to provide even more tax relief for working people.

Second, our framework will make the tax code simple, fair, and easy to understand, finally.  (Applause.)

Americans waste money.  Americans waste so much money — billions and billions of dollars and many hours each year to comply with our ridiculously complex tax code.  More than 90 percent of Americans use assistance to prepare their taxes.  Under our framework, the vast majority of families will be able to file their taxes on a single sheet of paper.  (Applause.)

We are also repealing the alternative minimum tax, or AMT.  About time.  (Applause.)

The AMT is actually a shadow tax system that requires many people to calculate their taxes two different ways and pay the higher of the two amounts.  You’re all familiar with it.  Under our framework, the AMT will make even less sense because we are repealing many of the special interest tax breaks that it was designed to deal with.  We are making our taxes simple again.  We are simplifying our tax system.

To protect millions of small businesses and the American farmer, we are finally ending the crushing, the horrible, the unfair estate tax, or as it is often referred to, the death tax.  (Applause.)

That means, especially for all of you with small businesses that are really tremendous businesses, you’ll be able to leave them to your family, and your family won’t have to run out and do a fire sale to try and get the money to pay the tax — lose the business, ends up going out of business.  All of those jobs are lost.  The farmers in particular are affected.  They have wonderful farms, but they can’t pay the tax, so they have to sell the farm.  The people that buy it don’t run it with love.  They can’t run it the same way, and it goes out.  So that death tax is a disaster for this country and a disaster for so many small businesses and farmers.  And we’re getting rid of it.  (Applause.)

Now if you don’t like your family, it won’t matter, okay?  (Laughter.)  But for those that love your family, it matters a lot.  (Laughter.)

With us today is Kip Tom, a family farmer from Leesburg — Where’s Kip?  Go ahead, Kip.  Hi, Kip — (applause) — who fears that his family’s farming heritage — it’s been a long time.  How long, Kip?  A hundred and eighty-seven years — that’s peanuts, Kip.  (Applause.)  Wow.  That’s a long time.  But that great heritage could come to an end because of the death tax, or the estate tax, and could make it impossible for him to pass that legacy to his wonderful family.  We’re not going to let that happen.

We are not going to allow the death tax to steal away the American Dream from these great, great families, many of which are in this room today.  (Applause.)

We will protect our farmers, our ranchers, and our small businesses, and we will make taxes simple, easy, and fair for all Americans.  Okay?  (Applause.)

Third, we will cut taxes on American businesses to restore our competitive edge and create more jobs and higher wages for American workers.  (Applause.)

In Indiana, you have seen firsthand that cutting taxes on businesses makes your state more competitive and leads to more jobs and higher paychecks for your workers.  Now, we want to do the same thing for America, making our country more competitive with other nations.  And in many cases, those other nations are taking advantage of us in so many ways.  They say they’re friends, and perhaps they are, but believe me, I am renegotiating our trade deals, including NAFTA, including many other trade deals.  (Applause.)

And through regulation, all you have to do is look at the massive pipelines — Dakota Access.  You take a look, 48,000 jobs immediately approved.  So we’re letting that happen.

But in terms of the tax and the tax strategy that Ronald Reagan used to create an economic boom in the 1980s:  When our economy took off, the middle class thrived, and the family income of all families was increasing more and more.  And it was a beautiful sight to behold.

Since then, other nations have adopted, unfortunately, our playbook and ran it even better than we did.  And I shouldn’t say even better because we didn’t run it well at all, and we let other nations come in and take advantage of us and take our jobs away and take our businesses out.  And we’re stopping that, and you see it right here what we’ve done.

Today, our total business tax rate is 60 percent higher than our average foreign competitor in the developed world.  That’s not good.  We have surrendered our competitive edge to other countries, but we’re not surrendering anymore.  We’re not surrendering anymore.

Under our framework, we will dramatically cut the business tax rate so that American companies and American workers can beat our foreign competitors and start winning again.  (Applause.)  We will reduce the corporate tax rate to no higher than 20 percent.  That’s way down from 35 and 39 — (applause) — which is substantially below the average of other industrialized nations.
This is a revolutionary change, and the biggest winners will be the everyday American workers as jobs start pouring into our country, as companies start competing for American labor, and as wages start going up at levels that you haven’t seen in many years.  (Applause.)

When our companies move to other countries, it’s our loyal American workers who get hurt.  And when companies stay in America, and come to America, it’s our wonderful workers who reap the rewards.

And I just left the United Nations last week, and I was told by one of the most powerful leaders of the world that they’re going to be announcing, in the not-too-distant future, five major factories in the United States — between increasing and new — five.  (Applause.)  You’ll be hearing about that very soon.

And I said thank you very much, and he said, “you know what?  It’s starting to happen in the United States.  It’s starting to happen.”  So I just wanted to let you know that.  I promised I wouldn’t say who.  I’ll keep my word.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  Unless you force me.  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Who?

THE PRESIDENT:  Members of both parties — it happens to be in the automobile industry.  That’s a good industry.  (Laughter.)  Members of both parties should agree that we need a tax code that keeps jobs in our country and brings jobs back to our country.  (Applause.)

And for the millions of small businesses and farms that file their taxes as sole proprietors, S corporations or partnerships, we will cap the tax rate they pay at 25 percent — much lower.  Big difference.  (Applause.)  This will be the lowest top marginal income tax rate for small and mid-size businesses in this country in more than 80 years.  (Applause.)

To give businesses even more reason to boost their investment in America, for the next five years, our framework will allow to fully write off — listen to this — the cost of equipment in the year they buy it.  That is big.  (Applause.)  And that’s instead of having to take deductions and deduct the cost over a long period of time.  Now that’s called incentive.  That’s called incentive.  (Applause.)  This will be tremendously important to help American businesses afford the heavy industrial machinery and other capital investments they need to grow big and grow strong.

Joining us today is John Gannon, the owner of a custom wood fencing and deck construction company in Indianapolis.  John is the father of nine children, and recently celebrated his 35th wedding anniversary.  Congratulations, John.  (Applause.)

And John is in the fencing company, as you heard, and I’m just thinking — I have to mention this — you know, we have a fence around the White House.  (Laughter.)  We have a fence around the White House, and they want to build a new fence.  And I figured, you know — I’m pretty good at construction — I figured, I don’t know, maybe a million, maybe a million-and-a-half.  And this has been taking place over a long period of time — previous administrations.

So I said, “how much is the fence you’re talking around the White House?”  “Sir, the fence will cost approximately $50 million.”  I said, “What?”  (Laughter.)  I kid you not, and we have thousands of things like that.  Thousands.  We’re going to get it all down, but think of that:  $50 million.  Now, I assume it’s a strong fence.  (Laughter.)  Okay?  So, John, do you think you could do it for slightly less than $50 million?  I think he could take $49 off right now and he’d have plenty of profit.  Right?  Right, John?  It’s crazy.  (Applause.)  It’s crazy.  Never understand it, but we’re working on it.

John says that a tax cut like we’re proposing will make his business more competitive, allowing him to expand, hire more workers, and raise wages for his current employees.  Right, John?

Also with us is Aaron Williams, a father of two who works in the field of information technology.  Where’s Aaron?  Hello, Aaron.  Hi.  (Applause.)  It’s a good field.

Aaron has seen the disastrous effects of high — and just literally, high corporate tax rates right up close and personal, as more and more high-tech jobs are shipped overseas.  You’ve been watching it, Aaron.  Right?  All over.  Like millions of other Americans, Aaron wants to bring those jobs back to the United States.

We’re going to reduce the tax rate on American businesses so they can keep jobs in America, Aaron; create jobs in America; compete for workers in America; and raise wages right here in America.  You’re going to be in a much different position.  Okay?  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Tremendous incentives.

We want more products proudly stamped with those four beautiful words:  Made in the USA.  Right?  (Applause.)  Made in the USA.

Finally, our framework encourages American companies to bring back the trillions and trillions of dollars in wealth that’s parked overseas.  Our current tax system — (applause) — trillions.  And by the way, for years I’ve been hearing it’s 2.5 trillion.  So I’ve been hearing this for about five years, so I assume it’s much more.  Right?  But Democrats want to do it, and Republicans want to do it.  For years — who doesn’t want to do it?  They want to bring — but they can’t do it because it’s so restrictive, and the taxes are so ridiculous.  So they can’t do it.  So the money stays in other countries, and it’s invested in other countries.  We want to bring it back.

But think of it, it’s one of the few things — Democrats want it and Republicans want it.  So they both want it, and yet for years they haven’t been able to do it.  Now we’re doing it.  We’re doing things.  (Applause.)

You know, it’s one thing when we want a healthcare and they want a healthcare, and there’s a dispute.  But here’s something everybody wants and they can’t do it.  So you can tell you, there’s a broken system in D.C., but we’re getting it fixed rather — I think — rather rapidly.  You’ll be seeing that over the next few months.

Our current tax system makes us one of the few developed nations in the world to punish our companies when they bring wealth earned overseas back into our country.  We’re punishing them for bringing the money back in.

As a result, corporations have parked many trillions of dollars in foreign countries, and many have incorporated abroad in order to avoid our punitive tax system altogether.  And some companies actually leave our country because they have so much money overseas — so much, it’s an incredible amount — that they move the company to get their money.  We’re going to let them bring the money back home.  (Applause.)

Our framework will stop punishing companies for keeping their headquarters in the United States.  We’re punishing companies under our codes for being in the United States.  We will impose a one-time low tax on returning money that is already offshore so that it can be brought back home to America where it belongs and where it can be put to work and work and work.  (Applause.)

The framework I’ve just described represents a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reduce taxes, rebuild our economy, and restore America’s competitive edge.  Finally.  (Applause.)

And I have to say, just before coming here we released some of the details of the tax and the tax reform and the tax cuts, and it has really received tremendous, tremendous reviews.  And if Senator Donnelly doesn’t approve it, because you know he’s on the other side, we will come here.  We will campaign against him like you wouldn’t believe.  (Applause.)  I think they’re going to approve it.  I think we’ll have — actually, I think we’ll have numerous Democrats come across because it’s the right thing to do.

These reforms will be a dramatic change from a failed tax system that encourages American businesses to ship jobs to foreign countries that have much lower tax rates.  It’s what we can’t do.  Our competitors have much lower tax rates.  But no longer.  My administration strongly rejects this offshoring model, and we have embraced the new model.  It’s called — the American model.  (Applause.)

Under the American model, we are reducing burdens on our businesses as long as they do business in our country.  That’s what we want.  We want them to do business in our country, not to leave our country like a number of firms from Indiana.  Some made some great promises to me, but those promises are only being partially kept because they’re incentivized to leave.  But now they’re going to be incentivized to stay.  And if that doesn’t work, then we’ll get even tougher than that.  Okay?

We want our companies to hire and grow in America and to raise wages for American workers, and to help rebuild American cities and towns.  (Applause.)

That is how we will all succeed together and grow together as one team, one people, and one American family.  We want it to happen here.  (Applause.)

Tax reform has not historically been a partisan issue, and it does not have to be a partisan issue today.  I really believe we’re going to have numerous Democrats come over and sign because it’s the right thing to do.  I believe that it’s the right thing to do, and I know many of them.  And they’re telling me it is the right thing to do.  President Reagan’s tax cuts were passed with significant bipartisan majorities at a time when there was a Democrat majority in the House and a Democrat Speaker — Tip O’Neill.

Before that, Democrat President John F. Kennedy championed tax cuts that surged the economy and massively reduced unemployment.   As President Kennedy very wisely said, “The single most important fiscal weapon available to strengthen the national economy is the federal tax policy.  The right kind of tax cut at the right time” — at the right time, this is the right time — “is the most effective measure that this government could take to spur our economy forward.”  That was President Kennedy.  (Applause.)

My fellow Americans, this is the right tax cut, and this is the right time.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress should come together, finally, to deliver this giant win for the American people and begin middle-class miracle — it’s called a middle-class miracle, once again.  It’s also called a miracle for our great companies; a miracle for the middle class, for the working person.

I truly believe that many Democrats want to support our plan, and with enough encouragement from the American people, they will find the courage to do what is right for our great country.  (Applause.)  But they’ll only do it if you, the American people, make your voices heard.  Only if you tell Congress to give us a tax code that puts American jobs first.  And that’s what we’re doing.  (Applause.)

History has proven time and time again that there is no power on Earth more awesome than the will of the American people.  That is why today I am asking all Americans — Republican, Democrat, independent — to join with me, and with each other to demand tax reform that will truly, truly, truly make America great again.  (Applause.)

Call your congressmen.  Call your senators.  Let them know you’re watching.  Let them know you’re waiting.  Tell them that today is the day for decision.  That now is the time to heal this self-inflicted economic wound.  And that with their action, the future will belong to all of us.

If you demand it, the politicians will listen.  They will answer, and they will act.  And someday, many years from now, our children and our grandchildren will remember this moment in history as the time when ordinary Americans took control of their destiny and chose a future of American patriotism, prosperity, and pride.  (Applause.)

With your help and your voice, we will bring back our jobs, we will bring back our wealth, and for every citizen across this land, we will bring back our great American dreams.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much. It’s so nice. And we appreciate it. And all of the people outside that were waving proudly the American flag — believe me, we appreciate it very much.

I want to thank Jerry Cook, Steve Burney — (applause) — and all of the tremendous employees here at the Loren Cook Company for hosting us today. Where is Jerry? Where is Jerry? (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you, Jerry. What a job. I’ve heard so much about you. It’s a great honor to know you, Jerry. Thank you.

I also want to welcome the many distinguished guests who are here with us for this very important event: Secretary of the Treasury, Steve Mnuchin. (Applause.) Thank you, Steve. Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross. (Applause.) Small Business Administrator — which, by the way, is a very large business, I will tell you that — Linda McMahon, a friend of mine. (Applause.) And from the purely political world, a really great friend who did such an incredible job with his beautiful wife at the inauguration, Senator Roy Blunt. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) Where’s Roy? Thank you, Roy.

Governor Greitens is here, who is doing some job. (Applause.) Thank you, Governor. Special. Lieutenant Governor Parson. Lieutenant Governor, thank you, Lieutenant Governor. And our great members of Commerce [Congress], I want to thank you all for coming. There are so many. I was asking the Governor and Roy, I said, do you think I should announce them all? I have so many. But I’m honored that they’re here.

Representative Sam Graves. (Applause.) Representative Vicky Hartzler, who has been terrific. (Applause.) My friend for a long time, and just somebody that he liked me from the beginning and I liked him, Billy Long. Where’s Billy? (Applause.) Billy. Right, Billy? Right from the beginning. Blaine Luetkemeyer — where’s Blaine? Good. Thank you, Blaine. (Applause.) Representative Jason Smith. (Applause.) Jason, thank you for everything, Jason. Representative Ann Wagner. Hi, Ann. Good job, Ann. (Applause.)

And, I don’t know, we have so many more. Anybody I forgot? Right? Everything okay? Good, I got it. You, I remember more than anybody. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. And to the congressmen and congresswomen, we very much appreciate you all being here. Thank you very much. (Applause.)

Before we begin, I’d like to take a few moments to discuss the deeply tragic situation in Texas and Louisiana. As we all know, our Gulf Coast was hit over the weekend with a devastating hurricane of historic proportion. Torrential rains and terrible flooding continue to pose a grave danger to life and to property. Our first responders have been doing absolutely heroic work to shepherd people out of harm’s way, and their courage and devotion has saved countless lives. They represent truly the very best of America. (Applause.)

We must be vigilant. We must protect the lives of our people. I was on the ground in Texas yesterday to meet with Governor Abbott — who is doing, by the way, and incredible job — and local officials so that we could coordinate the very big and unprecedented federal response.

In difficult times such as these, we see the true character of the American people: their strength, their love, and their resolve. We see friend helping friend, neighbor helping neighbor, and stranger helping stranger. And together, we will endure and we will overcome. (Applause.)

To those affected by this storm, we are praying for you and we are here with you every single step of the way. And I can speak, I know, for the people in this room — every step of the way. (Applause.)

To those Americans who have lost loved ones: All of America is grieving with you, and our hearts are joined with yours forever. The citizens of Texas and the Gulf Coast need all the prayers, support, and resources our communities have to offer. Recovery will be tough, but I have seen the resilience of the American spirit firsthand, all over this country.

To the people of Houston, and across Texas and Louisiana: We are here with you today, we are with you tomorrow, and we will be with you every single day after to restore, recover, and rebuild.

As our thoughts and prayers remain firmly with the citizens and our fellow people — people — great, great people — all affected by this tragedy. We’re also glad to be back in the heartland with the very, very fine folks of Missouri. (Applause.)

And I said to Senator Blunt and I said to Billy Long on the plane coming in — can I say “Missouri,” or should I say “Missouruh”? Okay? And they said, whatever you want is okay. So I said, good. But I’m especially pleased to be here in Springfield, the birthplace of a great American icon, the legendary Route 66. Who would have known that? (Applause.)

This is the place where the “Main Street of America” got its start, and this is where America’s main street will begin its big, beautiful comeback that — you are seeing it right now. This is a comeback of historic proportions. You’re seeing it happen right now. (Applause.) Right? You’re seeing it.

We’re here today to launch our plans to bring back Main Street by reducing the crushing tax burden on our companies and on our workers. (Applause.) Our self-destructive tax code costs Americans millions and millions of jobs, trillions of dollars, and billions of hours spent on compliance and paperwork. And you have seen what’s happening with regulations — they’re going fast. We need regulations, but many of them are unnecessary, and they’re going fast. (Applause.)

That is why the foundation of our job creation agenda is to fundamentally reform our tax code for the first time in more than 30 years. I want to work with Congress, Republicans and Democrats alike, on a plan that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker — and pro-American. (Applause.)

There is no more fitting place to launch this effort than right here in the American heartland, surrounded by hardworking men and women whose skill, determination, and drive are truly second to none. (Applause.)

And, by the way, before I start, Ivanka Trump — I see my beautiful daughter is in the audience. Stand up, honey. (Applause.) She’s working very hard. I’m very proud of Ivanka.

For many decades, Route 66 captured the American spirit. The communities along this historic route were a vivid symbol of America’s booming industry. Truck drivers hauled made-in-America goods along this vital artery of commerce. Families passed through bustling towns on their way to explore the great American West. And high-quality manufacturing jobs lifted up communities, gave Americans a paycheck that could support a family. Mr. Cook is a great example of the people that do it. (Applause.) Stand up. Stand up Mr. Cook. Stand up. (Applause.) I think they like you. And provided millions of our fellow citizens with the pride and dignity that comes with work.

But, in recent years, millions of Americans have watched that prosperity slip away in the rearview mirror. And it wasn’t pleasant to watch, especially for me. I would sit back — I was in business — and I could see what was happening. It wasn’t good.

If we want to renew our prosperity, and to restore opportunity, then we must reduce the tax burden on our companies and on our workers. (Applause.)

In the last 10 years, our economy has grown at only around two percent a year. If you look at other countries and you look at what their GDP is, they’re unhappy when it’s seven, eight, nine. And I speak to them — leaders of the countries — how are you doing? “Not well, not well.” Why? “GDP is down to seven percent.” And I’m saying, we were hitting one percent just a number of months ago. So we’re going to change that around, folks, that I can tell you. And we’re going change it around fast. (Applause.)

And today — a very appropriate day that this should happen — we just announced that we hit three percent in GDP. It just came out. (Applause.) And on a yearly basis, as you know, the last administration, during an eight-year period, never hit three percent. So we’re really on our way.

If we achieve sustained three percent growth, that means 12 million new jobs and $10 trillion dollars of new economic activity over the next decade. That’s some numbers. (Applause.) And I happen to be one that thinks we can go much higher than three percent. There’s no reason why we shouldn’t. (Applause.)

So this is our once-in-a-generation opportunity to deliver real tax reform for everyday hardworking Americans, and I am fully committed to working with Congress to get this job done. And I don’t want to be disappointed by Congress, do you understand me? Do you understand? (Applause.)

Congress — I think Congress is going to make a comeback. I hope so. (Laughter.) I tell you what, the United States is counting on it. (Applause.)

Here are my four principles for tax reform: First, we need a tax code that is simple, fair, and easy to understand. (Applause.) That means getting rid of the loopholes and complexity that primarily benefit the wealthiest Americans and special interests.

Our last major tax rewrite was 31 years ago. It eliminated dozens of loopholes and special interest tax breaks, reduced the number of tax brackets from fifteen to two, and lowered tax rates for both individuals and businesses. At the time, it was really something special.

Since then, our tax laws have tripled in size, and the tax code itself now spans more than 2,600 pages, and most of it is not understandable. Tax rates have increased, and special interest loopholes have crept back into the system. The tax code is now a massive source of complexity and frustration for tens of millions of Americans.

In 1935, the basic 1040 form that most people file had two simple pages of instructions. Today, that basic form has one hundred pages of instructions, and it’s pretty complex stuff. The tax code is so complicated that more than 90 percent of Americans need professional help to do their own taxes.

This enormous complexity is very unfair. It disadvantages ordinary Americans who don’t have an army of accountants while benefitting deep-pocketed special interests. And most importantly, this is wrong. (Applause.) Thank you.

First and foremost, our tax system should benefit loyal, hardworking Americans and their families. (Applause.) That is why tax reform must dramatically simplify the tax code, eliminate special interest loopholes — and I’m speaking against myself when I do this, I have to tell you. And I might be speaking against Mr. Cook, and we’re both okay with it, is that right? It’s crazy. We’re speaking — maybe we shouldn’t be doing this, you know? (Laughter.) But we’re doing the right thing. (Applause.) True. And allow the vast majority of our citizens to file their taxes on a single, simple page without having to hire an accountant.

Second, we need a competitive tax code that creates more jobs and higher wages for Americans. It’s time to give American workers the pay raise that they’ve been looking for for many, many years. (Applause.)

In 1986, Ronald Reagan led the world by cutting our corporate tax rate to 34 percent. That was below the average rate for developed countries at the time. Everybody thought that was a monumental thing that happened. But then, under this pro-America system, our economy boomed. It just went beautifully — right through the roof. The middle class thrived and median family income increased.

Other countries saw the success. They looked at us. They saw — what is America doing? What’s happening with the United States? And they acted very swiftly by cutting their taxes lower, and lower, and lower, and reforming their tax systems to be far more competitive than ours.

Over the past 30 years, the average business tax rate among developed nations fell from 45 percent to less than 24 percent. And some countries have an unbelievably low tax, including, by the way, China and some others that are highly competitive, and really doing very well against us. They are taking us, frankly, to the cleaners. So we must — we have no choice — we must lower our taxes.

And your Senator, Claire McCaskill, she must do this for you. And if she doesn’t do it for you, you have to have to vote her out of office. (Applause.) She’s got to make that commitment. She’s got to make that commitment. If she doesn’t do it, you just can’t do this anymore, with the obstruction and the obstructionists. If we don’t get tax cuts and reform approved, potentially, the biggest ever — we are looking for the biggest ever — jobs and our country cannot take off the way they should, and it could be much worse than that. But, at a minimum, they won’t take off the way they should.

The Dems are looking to obstruct tax cuts and tax reform, just like they obstructed so many other things, including administration appointments and healthcare. Not one vote. We got not one vote to try and fix healthcare and get rid of Obamacare.

The strategy of our economic rivals has worked. They made their taxes lower — and far lower, in many cases, than ours — and jobs left our country. Large corporations changed their business models by exporting jobs to other countries and then shipping their goods back to the United States, where they’d make massive profits, and they wouldn’t be paying tax to us either. So we lost the jobs, we lost the taxes, they closed the buildings, they closed the plants and factories. We got nothing but unemployment. We got nothing.

Other businesses — even classic American brands — switched their headquarters to foreign countries. Because of this and other reasons, like weak borders, America remains stuck in the past. Although I have to tell you, we have General Kelly here today, and we stopped 78 percent — going up to 80 percent — on the border traffic coming through, in just a short period of time. (Applause.) He has done some job. A whole different world out there right now.

Today, we are still taxing our businesses at 35 percent, and it’s way more than that. And think of it: In some cases, way above 40 percent when you include state and local taxes, in various states. The United States is now behind France, behind Germany, behind Canada, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and many other nations. Also, with these countries and almost every country, we have massive trade deficits — numbers that you would not believe.

But this administration is going to fix that. One by one, we’re fixing it. We’re working right now on NAFTA — the horrible, terrible NAFTA deal that took so much business out of your state and out of your cities and towns, and we’re working on it. Let’s see what happens. (Applause.)

Mexico is not happy. (Laughter.) But as I told them, you made a lot of money for a lot of years and everybody left you alone. We got to change this deal. And hopefully we can renegotiate it. But if we can’t, we’ll terminate it and we’ll start all over again with a real deal. (Applause.)

So when it comes to the business tax, we are dead last. Can you believe that? So this cannot be allowed to continue any longer. America must lead the way, not follow from behind.

We have gone from a tax rate that is lower than our economic competitors, to one that is more than 60 percent higher. We have totally surrendered our competitive edge to other countries. We have totally surrendered. We’re not surrendering anymore. (Applause.)

Ideally — and I say this for our Secretary of the Treasury — we would like to bring our business tax rate down to 15 percent, which would make our tax rate lower than most countries, but still, by no means the lowest, unfortunately, in the world. But it would make us highly competitive.

In other words, foreign companies have more than a 60 percent tax advantage over American companies. They can pay their workers more, sell their products and services at lower cost, and still make more money than their U.S. competitors.

We cannot restore our wealth if we continue to put our businesses at such a tremendous disadvantage. We must reduce the tax rate on American businesses so they keep jobs in America, create jobs in America, and compete for workers right here in America — the America we love. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you very much.

Because when businesses compete for labor, your wages will go up. Lower taxes on American business means higher wages for American workers, and it means more products made right here in the USA. (Applause.)

When I was growing up, I always used to see the signs, and it was always stamped on the product: Made in the USA. You don’t see it anymore. We’re going to go back to Made in the USA — Made in the USA.” (Applause.)

The third principle for tax reform is a crucial one: tax relief for middle-class families. (Applause.) In a way — and I’ve been saying this for a long time — they’ve been sort of the forgotten people, but they’re not forgotten any longer. I can tell you that. (Applause.)

We will lower taxes for middle-income Americans so they can keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and they can do lots of things with those paychecks. And that really means buying product ideally made in this country, but that means they’ll go out, and they’ll spend their money. And it will be a beautiful thing to watch. This includes helping parents afford childcare and the cost of raising a family. That’s so important to Ivanka Trump. (Applause.) Very, very important to everybody in this room, but so important to my daughter. It’s one of her real big beliefs. And she’s very committed to that. Right, Ivanka?

We believe that ordinary Americans know better than Washington how to spend their own money, and we want to help them take home as much of their money as possible and then spend it. (Applause.) So they’ll keep their money. They’ll spend their money. They’ll buy our product. Our factories will be moving again. Companies are going to move back into our country, jobs are going to prosper, and our country is going to be just like it says on that beautiful red hat — it says: Make America Great Again. That’s what we’re going to do. (Applause.) Right?

Fourth and finally, we want to bring back trillions of dollars in wealth that’s parked overseas. Because of our high tax rate and horrible, outdated, bureaucratic rules, large companies that do business overseas will often park their profits offshore to avoid paying a high United States tax if the money is brought back home. So they leave the money over there.

The amount of money we’re talking about is anywhere from $3 trillion to $5 trillion. Can you believe that? By making it less punitive for companies to bring back this money, and by making the process far less bureaucratic and difficult, we can return trillions and trillions of dollars to our economy and spur billions of dollars in new investments in our struggling communities and throughout our nation.

It’s time to invest in our country, to rebuild our communities, and to hire our great American workers. (Applause.)

My administration is embracing a new economic model. It’s called very simply: The American Model. Under this system, we will encourage companies to hire and grow in America, to raise wages for American workers, and to help rebuild our American cities and communities. That is how we will all succeed and grow together, as one team, with one shared sense of purpose, and one glorious American destiny. (Applause.)

So today I’m calling on all members of Congress — Democrat, Republican and independent — to support pro-American tax reform. They have to do it. It’s time. (Applause.) They have to do it. It is time.

I’m calling on Congress to provide a level playing field for our workers and our companies, to attract new companies and businesses to our shores, and to put more money into the pockets of everyday, hardworking people and also into the pockets of our companies so they can continue to grow and expand. (Applause.)

What could possibly be more bipartisan than allowing families to keep more of what they earn and creating an environment for real job and wage growth in the country that we love so much? (Applause.)

So let’s put — or at least try to put — the partisan posturing behind us and come together as Americans to create the 21st century tax code that our people deserve. (Applause.)

If we do this, if we unite in the name of common sense and the name of common good, then we will add millions and millions of new jobs, bring back trillions of dollars, and we will give America the competitive advantage that it so desperately needs and has been looking for for so long. It’s time. (Applause.)

Products made with American hands, American labor, and American grit will once again be delivered throughout the world. It’s true. (Applause.) It’s time. Instead of exporting our jobs, we will export our goods. (Applause.) Our jobs will both stay here in America and come back to America. We’ll have it both ways. Millions of struggling citizens will be lifted from welfare to work. They will love getting up in the morning. They will love going to their job. They will love earning a big, fat, beautiful paycheck. They will be proud again. (Applause.)

That is the future I want for our people. That is the future I want for America — a nation where we are proud, prosperous, united, and free.

Today, I am asking every citizen to join me in dreaming big and bold and daring things — beautiful things — for our country. I am asking every member of Congress, of which we have many with us today, to join me in unleashing America’s full potential. I am asking everyone in this room and across the nation to join me in demanding nothing but the best for our nation and for our people.

And if we do these things, and if we care for and support each other, and love each other, then we will truly make America great again.

Thank you. God bless you. (Applause.) God bless you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Governor, thank you. Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.

Hello, everybody.  Great to be back in New York with all of our friends, and some great friends outside the building, I must tell you.  I want to thank all of our distinguished guests who are with us today, including members of our Cabinet:  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, OMB Director Mick Mulvaney and, of course, our Transportation Secretary — who is doing a fabulous job — Elaine Chao.

Thank you all for doing a really incredible and creative job on what we’re going to be discussing today, which is infrastructure.  We’ve just had a great set of briefings upstairs on our infrastructure agenda.  My administration is working every day to deliver the world-class infrastructure that our people deserve and, frankly, that our country deserves.

That’s why I just signed a new executive order to dramatically reform the nation’s badly broken infrastructure permitting process.

Just blocks away is the Empire State Building.  It took 11 months to build the Empire State Building.  But today, it can take as long as a decade and much more than that — many, many stories where it takes 20 and 25 years just to get approvals to start construction of a fairly routine highway.  Highway builders must get up to 16 different approvals involving nine different federal agencies governed by 29 different statutes.  One agency alone can stall a project for many, many years, and even decades.

Not only does this cost our economy billions of dollars, but it also denies our citizens the safe and modern infrastructure they deserve.  This overregulated permitting process is a massive self-inflicted wound on our country — it’s disgraceful — denying our people much-needed investments in their community.

And I just want to show you this because it was just shown to me, and I said, I think I’m going to show it to the media — both real and fake media, by the way.  This is what it takes to get something approved today.  Elaine, you see that?  So this is what it takes.  Permitting process flowchart — that’s a flowchart.

So that can go out to 20 years.  This shows about 10, but that can go out to about 20 years to get something approved.  This is for a highway.  I’ve seen a highway recently in a certain state — I won’t mention its name — 17 years.  I could have built it for four or five million dollars without the permitting process.  It cost hundreds of millions of dollars, but it took 17 years to get it approved and many, many, many, many pages of environmental impact studies.

This is what we will bring it down to.  This is less than two years.  This is going to happen quickly.  That’s what I’m signing today.  This will be less than two years for a highway.  So it’s going to be quick, it’s going to be a very streamlined process.  And, by the way, if it doesn’t meet environmental safeguards, we’re not going to approve it.  Very simple.  We’re not going to approve it.  Maybe this one will say, let’s throw the other one away.  Would anybody like it from the media?  (Laughter.)  Would anybody like that long, beautiful chart?  You can have it.

So my executive order also requires agencies to work together efficiently by requiring one lead agency for each major infrastructure project.  It also holds agencies accountable if they fail to streamline their review process.  So each agency is accountable.  We’re going to get infrastructure built quickly, inexpensively — relatively speaking — and the permitting process will go very, very quickly.

No longer will we tolerate one job-killing delay after another.  No longer will we accept a broken system that benefits consultants and lobbyists at the expense of hardworking Americans.

Now, I knew the process very well — probably better than anybody.  I had to get permits for this building and many of the buildings I built — all of the buildings I built in Manhattan and many other places.  And I will tell you that the consultants are rich people.  They go around making it very difficult.  They lobby Congress, they lobby state governments, city governments to make it very difficult so that you have to hire consultants, and that you have to take years and pay them a fortune.  So we’re streamlining the process, and we won’t be having so much of that anymore.

No longer will we allow the infrastructure of our magnificent country to crumble and decay.  While protecting the environment, we will build gleaming new roads, bridges, railways, waterways, tunnels, and highways.  We will rebuild our country with American workers, American iron, American aluminum, American steel.  We will create millions of new jobs and make millions of American dreams come true.

Our infrastructure will again be the best in the world.  We used to have the greatest infrastructure anywhere in the world, and today we’re like a third-world country.  We are literally like a third-world country.  Our infrastructure will again be the best, and we will restore the pride in our communities, our nation, and all over the United States we’ll be proud again.

So I want to thank everybody for being here.  God bless you.  God bless the United States.

And if you have any questions, we have — Mick, you can come up here please.  Come on up.  Mick Mulvaney.

If you have any questions, please feel free to ask.

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  I would like to begin by addressing the terrorist attack in Manila.  We’re closely monitoring the situation, and I will continue to give updates if anything happens during this period of time.  But it is really very sad as to what’s going on throughout the world with terror.  Our thoughts and our prayers are with all of those affected.

Before we discuss the Paris Accord, I’d like to begin with an update on our tremendous — absolutely tremendous — economic progress since Election Day on November 8th.  The economy is starting to come back, and very, very rapidly.  We’ve added $3.3 trillion in stock market value to our economy, and more than a million private sector jobs.

I have just returned from a trip overseas where we concluded nearly $350 billion of military and economic development for the United States, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs.  It was a very, very successful trip, believe me.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

In my meetings at the G7, we have taken historic steps to demand fair and reciprocal trade that gives Americans a level playing field against other nations.  We’re also working very hard for peace in the Middle East, and perhaps even peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.  Our attacks on terrorism are greatly stepped up — and you see that, you see it all over — from the previous administration, including getting many other countries to make major contributions to the fight against terror.  Big, big contributions are being made by countries that weren’t doing so much in the form of contribution.

One by one, we are keeping the promises I made to the American people during my campaign for President –- whether it’s cutting job-killing regulations; appointing and confirming a tremendous Supreme Court justice; putting in place tough new ethics rules; achieving a record reduction in illegal immigration on our southern border; or bringing jobs, plants, and factories back into the United States at numbers which no one until this point thought even possible.  And believe me, we’ve just begun.  The fruits of our labor will be seen very shortly even more so.

On these issues and so many more, we’re following through on our commitments.  And I don’t want anything to get in our way.  I am fighting every day for the great people of this country.  Therefore, in order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord — (applause) — thank you, thank you — but begin negotiations to reenter either the Paris Accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers.  So we’re getting out.  But we will start to negotiate, and we will see if we can make a deal that’s fair.  And if we can, that’s great.  And if we can’t, that’s fine.  (Applause.)

As President, I can put no other consideration before the wellbeing of American citizens.  The Paris Climate Accord is simply the latest example of Washington entering into an agreement that disadvantages the United States to the exclusive benefit of other countries, leaving American workers — who I love — and taxpayers to absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs, lower wages, shuttered factories, and vastly diminished economic production.

Thus, as of today, the United States will cease all implementation of the non-binding Paris Accord and the draconian financial and economic burdens the agreement imposes on our country.  This includes ending the implementation of the nationally determined contribution and, very importantly, the Green Climate Fund which is costing the United States a vast fortune.

Compliance with the terms of the Paris Accord and the onerous energy restrictions it has placed on the United States could cost America as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025 according to the National Economic Research Associates.  This includes 440,000 fewer manufacturing jobs — not what we need — believe me, this is not what we need — including automobile jobs, and the further decimation of vital American industries on which countless communities rely.  They rely for so much, and we would be giving them so little.

According to this same study, by 2040, compliance with the commitments put into place by the previous administration would cut production for the following sectors:  paper down 12 percent; cement down 23 percent; iron and steel down 38 percent; coal — and I happen to love the coal miners — down 86 percent; natural gas down 31 percent.  The cost to the economy at this time would be close to $3 trillion in lost GDP and 6.5 million industrial jobs, while households would have $7,000 less income and, in many cases, much worse than that.

Not only does this deal subject our citizens to harsh economic restrictions, it fails to live up to our environmental ideals.  As someone who cares deeply about the environment, which I do, I cannot in good conscience support a deal that punishes the United States — which is what it does -– the world’s leader in environmental protection, while imposing no meaningful obligations on the world’s leading polluters.

For example, under the agreement, China will be able to increase these emissions by a staggering number of years — 13.  They can do whatever they want for 13 years.  Not us.  India makes its participation contingent on receiving billions and billions and billions of dollars in foreign aid from developed countries.  There are many other examples.  But the bottom line is that the Paris Accord is very unfair, at the highest level, to the United States.

Further, while the current agreement effectively blocks the development of clean coal in America — which it does, and the mines are starting to open up.  We’re having a big opening in two weeks.  Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, so many places.  A big opening of a brand-new mine.  It’s unheard of.  For many, many years, that hasn’t happened.  They asked me if I’d go.  I’m going to try.

China will be allowed to build hundreds of additional coal plants.  So we can’t build the plants, but they can, according to this agreement.  India will be allowed to double its coal production by 2020.  Think of it:  India can double their coal production.  We’re supposed to get rid of ours.  Even Europe is allowed to continue construction of coal plants.

In short, the agreement doesn’t eliminate coal jobs, it just transfers those jobs out of America and the United States, and ships them to foreign countries.

This agreement is less about the climate and more about other countries gaining a financial advantage over the United States.  The rest of the world applauded when we signed the Paris Agreement — they went wild; they were so happy — for the simple reason that it put our country, the United States of America, which we all love, at a very, very big economic disadvantage.  A cynic would say the obvious reason for economic competitors and their wish to see us remain in the agreement is so that we continue to suffer this self-inflicted major economic wound.  We would find it very hard to compete with other countries from other parts of the world.

We have among the most abundant energy reserves on the planet, sufficient to lift millions of America’s poorest workers out of poverty.  Yet, under this agreement, we are effectively putting these reserves under lock and key, taking away the great wealth of our nation — it’s great wealth, it’s phenomenal wealth; not so long ago, we had no idea we had such wealth — and leaving millions and millions of families trapped in poverty and joblessness.

The agreement is a massive redistribution of United States wealth to other countries.  At 1 percent growth, renewable sources of energy can meet some of our domestic demand, but at 3 or 4 percent growth, which I expect, we need all forms of available American energy, or our country — (applause) — will be at grave risk of brownouts and blackouts, our businesses will come to a halt in many cases, and the American family will suffer the consequences in the form of lost jobs and a very diminished quality of life.

Even if the Paris Agreement were implemented in full, with total compliance from all nations, it is estimated it would only produce a two-tenths of one degree — think of that; this much — Celsius reduction in global temperature by the year 2100.  Tiny, tiny amount.  In fact, 14 days of carbon emissions from China alone would wipe out the gains from America — and this is an incredible statistic — would totally wipe out the gains from America’s expected reductions in the year 2030, after we have had to spend billions and billions of dollars, lost jobs, closed factories, and suffered much higher energy costs for our businesses and for our homes.

As the Wall Street Journal wrote this morning:  “The reality is that withdrawing is in America’s economic interest and won’t matter much to the climate.”  The United States, under the Trump administration, will continue to be the cleanest and most environmentally friendly country on Earth.  We’ll be the cleanest.  We’re going to have the cleanest air.  We’re going to have the cleanest water.  We will be environmentally friendly, but we’re not going to put our businesses out of work and we’re not going to lose our jobs.  We’re going to grow; we’re going to grow rapidly.  (Applause.)

And I think you just read — it just came out minutes ago, the small business report — small businesses as of just now are booming, hiring people.  One of the best reports they’ve seen in many years.

I’m willing to immediately work with Democratic leaders to either negotiate our way back into Paris, under the terms that are fair to the United States and its workers, or to negotiate a new deal that protects our country and its taxpayers.  (Applause.)

So if the obstructionists want to get together with me, let’s make them non-obstructionists.  We will all sit down, and we will get back into the deal.  And we’ll make it good, and we won’t be closing up our factories, and we won’t be losing our jobs.  And we’ll sit down with the Democrats and all of the people that represent either the Paris Accord or something that we can do that’s much better than the Paris Accord.  And I think the people of our country will be thrilled, and I think then the people of the world will be thrilled.  But until we do that, we’re out of the agreement.

I will work to ensure that America remains the world’s leader on environmental issues, but under a framework that is fair and where the burdens and responsibilities are equally shared among the many nations all around the world.

No responsible leader can put the workers — and the people — of their country at this debilitating and tremendous disadvantage.  The fact that the Paris deal hamstrings the United States, while empowering some of the world’s top polluting countries, should dispel any doubt as to the real reason why foreign lobbyists wish to keep our magnificent country tied up and bound down by this agreement:  It’s to give their country an economic edge over the United States.  That’s not going to happen while I’m President.  I’m sorry.  (Applause.)

My job as President is to do everything within my power to give America a level playing field and to create the economic, regulatory and tax structures that make America the most prosperous and productive country on Earth, and with the highest standard of living and the highest standard of environmental protection.

Our tax bill is moving along in Congress, and I believe it’s doing very well.  I think a lot of people will be very pleasantly surprised.  The Republicans are working very, very hard.  We’d love to have support from the Democrats, but we may have to go it alone.  But it’s going very well.

The Paris Agreement handicaps the United States economy in order to win praise from the very foreign capitals and global activists that have long sought to gain wealth at our country’s expense.  They don’t put America first.  I do, and I always will.  (Applause.)

The same nations asking us to stay in the agreement are the countries that have collectively cost America trillions of dollars through tough trade practices and, in many cases, lax contributions to our critical military alliance.  You see what’s happening.  It’s pretty obvious to those that want to keep an open mind.

At what point does America get demeaned?  At what point do they start laughing at us as a country?   We want fair treatment for its citizens, and we want fair treatment for our taxpayers.  We don’t want other leaders and other countries laughing at us anymore.  And they won’t be.  They won’t be.

I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris.  (Applause.)  I promised I would exit or renegotiate any deal which fails to serve America’s interests.  Many trade deals will soon be under renegotiation.  Very rarely do we have a deal that works for this country, but they’ll soon be under renegotiation.  The process has begun from day one.  But now we’re down to business.

Beyond the severe energy restrictions inflicted by the Paris Accord, it includes yet another scheme to redistribute wealth out of the United States through the so-called Green Climate Fund — nice name — which calls for developed countries to send $100 billion to developing countries all on top of America’s existing and massive foreign aid payments.  So we’re going to be paying billions and billions and billions of dollars, and we’re already way ahead of anybody else.  Many of the other countries haven’t spent anything, and many of them will never pay one dime.

The Green Fund would likely obligate the United States to commit potentially tens of billions of dollars of which the United States has already handed over $1 billion — nobody else is even close; most of them haven’t even paid anything — including funds raided out of America’s budget for the war against terrorism.  That’s where they came.  Believe me, they didn’t come from me.  They came just before I came into office.  Not good.  And not good the way they took the money.

In 2015, the United Nation’s departing top climate officials reportedly described the $100 billion per year as “peanuts,” and stated that “the $100 billion is the tail that wags the dog.”  In 2015, the Green Climate Fund’s executive director reportedly stated that estimated funding needed would increase to $450 billion per year after 2020.  And nobody even knows where the money is going to.  Nobody has been able to say, where is it going to?

Of course, the world’s top polluters have no affirmative obligations under the Green Fund, which we terminated.  America is $20 trillion in debt.  Cash-strapped cities cannot hire enough police officers or fix vital infrastructure.  Millions of our citizens are out of work.  And yet, under the Paris Accord, billions of dollars that ought to be invested right here in America will be sent to the very countries that have taken our factories and our jobs away from us.  So think of that.

There are serious legal and constitutional issues as well.  Foreign leaders in Europe, Asia, and across the world should not have more to say with respect to the U.S. economy than our own citizens and their elected representatives.  Thus, our withdrawal from the agreement represents a reassertion of America’s sovereignty.  (Applause.)  Our Constitution is unique among all the nations of the world, and it is my highest obligation and greatest honor to protect it.  And I will.

Staying in the agreement could also pose serious obstacles for the United States as we begin the process of unlocking the restrictions on America’s abundant energy reserves, which we have started very strongly.  It would once have been unthinkable that an international agreement could prevent the United States from conducting its own domestic economic affairs, but this is the new reality we face if we do not leave the agreement or if we do not negotiate a far better deal.

The risks grow as historically these agreements only tend to become more and more ambitious over time.  In other words, the Paris framework is a starting point — as bad as it is — not an end point.  And exiting the agreement protects the United States from future intrusions on the United States’ sovereignty and massive future legal liability.  Believe me, we have massive legal liability if we stay in.

As President, I have one obligation, and that obligation is to the American people.  The Paris Accord would undermine our economy, hamstring our workers, weaken our sovereignty, impose unacceptable legal risks, and put us at a permanent disadvantage to the other countries of the world.  It is time to exit the Paris Accord — (applause) — and time to pursue a new deal that protects the environment, our companies, our citizens, and our country.

It is time to put Youngstown, Ohio, Detroit, Michigan, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania — along with many, many other locations within our great country — before Paris, France.  It is time to make America great again.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.  Very important.  I’d like to ask Scott Pruitt, who most of you know and respect, as I do, just to say a few words.

 Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Wow.  You know, I asked how many people would be here tonight.  They said a couple of hundred.  It was just like a little fundraiser.  They didn’t say you broke — 23 years, you broke the all-time record tonight — $30.1 million.  And broke it by $10 million — that’s not so close.  So, congratulations.  We’re going to have a great eight years together.  (Applause.)

And Rasmussen just came out with a very good poll — you’ll be liking this poll.  This poll is good.  We’re going to do a good job.  More importantly, we’re going to do a great job, and then we’re going to win it the old-fashioned way — we’re just going to win it.  And I want to thank everybody.

This is a lot more than 200 people.  This is a hell of a big room.  (Laughter.)  That’s far back.  Can you see over there?  See, I would have gotten rid of these columns, actually.  (Laughter.)  That’s being a construction man.  But that was a long time ago, they didn’t do that.

Well, it’s an honor to address you tonight, and thank each and every one of you for your role in helping to build, sustain and grow a truly strong Republican Party again.

In this effort, we will be working hand-in-hand with our House leadership team — and I’ve really gotten to know them and they are winners and they are terrific people — terrific people.  (Applause.)  Speaker Paul Ryan, Leader Kevin McCarthy, Majority Whip Steve Scalise, and Conference Chairwoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers.  What a group, great group  (Applause.)

Also with us tonight — a man who I have a lot respect for, gave me a very early endorsement — former Vice President Dick Cheney, along with his daughter, Congressman Liz Cheney.  (Applause.)  Where is he?  Thank you, Dick.  Thank you.  Thank you, Liz.

I also want to thank the Chairman of the Republican Congressional — I mean, look, what a group — Committee.  Where is Steve?  Where is he?  They lost him backstage.  Steve Stivers — where is he?  Steve, what the hell happened?  I think he left.  (Laughter.)  Everyone is looking — it’s the second time he’s been introduced.  Steve, are you there?  Oh.  Come here, Steve.  What a job you did.  Come here, Steve.  He’s embarrassed.  (Laughter.)  Come here, come on, get up here, Steve.  Come here.  (Applause.)

MR. STIVERS:   Thanks, everybody.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s what I like.  See, that’s a real worker.  Oh, boy — no talk, all action, right?  We like people like that.  Congratulations to Steve.

And March Dinner Chairman, Steve Womack, and the NRCC Finance Chair, Ann Wagner — thank you.  Thank you, Ann.  (Applause.)

The work of the NRCC never ends.  In fact, we have four special elections currently underway in Georgia — we won — Montana — we won — Kansas — we won — and South Carolina.  We love South Carolina.  That’s some group.  Where’s South Carolina?  Oh, we love South Carolina.  Remember I was supposed to lose that one big and we won by 21 points.  And that’s when I found out these polls are rigged.  (Laughter.)  They were rigged.  Thank you, South Carolina.  I learned a lot from South Carolina.

Our nominees from Montana and Kansas are here with us this evening — Greg Gianforte and Ron Estes.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

On November 8th, the American People voted for historic change — and they also voted for serious action.  By delivering the House, the Senate and the White House, the American people gave us clear instructions:  It’s time to get busy, get to work, and to get the job done.  (Applause.)

That legislative effort begins with Thursday’s crucial vote — and it really is a crucial vote for the Republican Party and for the people of our country — to finally repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.  It’s what it is, a disaster.  Premiums have soared double digits and even triple digits.  Insurance companies are fleeing.  One-third of counties only have one Obamacare insurer left.  I was in Tennessee four nights ago — they’ve lost half the state.  The insurance companies are gone and they’re going to lose the next one pretty soon from what they say.  And last night in Kentucky, we had a tremendous crowd — 25,000 people, more — and a similar crowd in Tennessee, by the way — packed, with thousands of people outside.  They couldn’t get them into these massive arenas — there’s something going on that’s really incredible in this country.  It’s really incredible.

But Kentucky also is having a tremendous problem, as you know and as you’ve read, with Obamacare.  And many other states.  The House bill ends the Obamacare nightmare and gives healthcare decisions back to the states — and back to the American people.

These are the conservative solutions we campaigned on, and these are the conservative solutions the American people asked us as a group to deliver.  We are keeping our promises.  I go to these arenas, and they have signs all over the place — He’s kept his promise.  He’s kept his promise.  Because I’ve done a lot of work.

The border is in the best shape it’s been in in decades.  Down 61 percent since inauguration.  (Applause.)  General Kelly — you know, they used to put political people — I refuse to say political hacks because I would not say that.  Because there is no such thing as a political hack.  But they would put nice political people at the border.  I put General Kelly — recommended by General “Mad Dog” Mattis.  (Applause.)

I said to him, General — General Mattis — I said, General, I need somebody really smart and really tough for the border.  Sir, I have the man — General Kelly.  Soon as I saw him it was like — an interview lasted for about 30 seconds — I said, he’s the right guy.  And he’s been great.  And General Mattis has been great — you see what’s going on.  Big difference.

It’s been 60 days since my inauguration, and that was a promise that I’ve really kept.

As you saw today in the Senate, I nominated a Supreme Court justice who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.  (Applause.)

I’ve taken historic action to eliminate unnecessary, job-killing regulations.  And we’ve just started on that one.  (Applause.)  But we’ve gotten rid of a lot of them.  That includes eliminating regulations crushing our coal industry.  We’re going to put our great coal miners back to work.  Clean coal.  Clean coal.  (Applause.)

I’ve cleared the way for the Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines — and added a requirement that American pipelines be constructed with American steel.  That was the last minute.  I said, where are we getting the steel?  I won’t tell you where, but you can guess.  I said, from now on we have to go — we have to build them here.  You want to put pipelines under our land you’re going to make the pipe in this country.  (Applause.)

And one other thing happened.  I have to tell you, it’s sort of interesting.  So I get a call from the ex-president of Goldman Sachs who now works for — Gary Cohn.  I said to him, Gary, let me ask you — I heard there was a lawsuit.  I hear the pipeline company is suing us.  I said, how much?  $14 billion.  I said, wait a minute.  I’m approving the pipeline and they’re suing us for $14 billion, and I’ve already approved it, right?  I said, I just heard it.  Go back to them and tell them if they don’t drop the suit immediately we are going to terminate the deal  You have great — you know, being President gives you great power, right?  (Laughter.)  So I just saw him this morning — I said, by the way, how did you do?  He said, sir, they dropped the suit.  Good.  (Applause.)

Isn’t that easier — look, if I’m — do you think Hillary does that?  I don’t think so.  I don’t think so.  Isn’t that easier, though, than settling for like $4 billion seven years from now?  Oh, but the lawyers aren’t happy at all.  They don’t like it.  You got a lot of lawyers in this crowd — they’re not happy about that deal.

Because of the new business climate that we’re creating, jobs are already starting to pour back in — companies like Sprint, Intel, Exxon-Mobile — where a great man, Rex Tillerson, is doing an incredible job — (applause) — ran that company for many years and ran it well.  Walmart, Ford, Fiat-Chrysler and General Motors have all announced that they’re keeping or adding tens of thousands of jobs right here in America.  A big difference.  We used to hear they’re all leaving.  Now they’re all coming back.  They’re coming back, too, believe me.  If they don’t, we’re taxing the hell out of their products, so you know they’re coming back.  (Applause.)

Why didn’t somebody start doing that 25 years ago?  One company said, sir, we’re building a big plant — there’s nothing we can do to stop it.  It’s already under construction.  I said, here’s the story — when you make your cars, or whatever, and you fire all our American employees, and then you think in your new plant — beautiful new plant, congratulations — you’re going to sell that product our border, tax-free, you’re wrong — 35 percent tax.  It’s amazing how quickly they say, you know, I think we’ve decided to stay in the United States.

I only wonder, why didn’t somebody do this like 25 years ago?  You would have had nobody leaving.  So far, I think I’m batting about 100 percent.

To save taxpayer dollars, I’ve already begun negotiating better contracts for the federal government — saving over $700 million on just one set of airplanes of which there are many sets.

As I promised during the campaign, I have proposed a budget that eliminates the defense sequester and fully rebuilds the United States military.  We need it more than ever.  (Applause.)  We need it more than ever.  We’ve got a lot of haters out there — they hate.  We got some people running some countries that are bad people.  We will take care of it.   We will ensure that the America warrior — and if you think about it, the great American warriors — because that’s what they are — are given the tools, the funding, the resources, the training and equipment they so richly deserve.  They are warriors, and they have old equipment.  They’re not going to have old equipment much longer.

And we will take care of our great veterans.  What’s happening there is going to be incredible.  Finally, we’re going to take care of our veterans.  (Applause.)  Our defense expansion will fully pay — and this will be something that is so important — it will be fully paid by making government leaner, more accountable and just perfect for our people.  But I will tell you, if it’s not fully paid — because we’re doing a big number, with the planes and the ships — our Navy is at World War I levels.  Can you believe that?  World War I levels.  So if we don’t fully pay, we’re going to do a little work, but we’re going to get our military rebuilt — bigger and better and stronger than ever — because we have no choice, folks.  There’s some bad players out there.  (Applause.)  And it’s going to go quickly.

I have also followed through on my promise to secure, protect and defend the borders of the United States — and, yes, we will build a great border wall at our Southern border.  (Applause.)  It will be built.  These security actions will save billions of dollars, millions of jobs, and thousands and thousands of lives.  We’re also taking decisive action to improve our vetting procedures.  The courts are not helping us, I have to be honest with you.  Ridiculous.  Somebody said I should not criticize judges.  Okay, I’ll criticize judges.  (Laughter.)  To keep criminals and terrorists the hell out of our country.

We are keeping these promises, and many, many more.  After we repeal and replace Obamacare, our Republican majority will pass massive, historic tax reform — the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, and potentially even bigger.  It’s going to be very big.  (Applause.)  And by the way, we had to go — had no choice — had to go with the healthcare first.  You know how it works.  This is one room that really does know how it works.  But we had to go with the healthcare first.  And we’re doing well.  I think we’re going to have some great surprises.  I hope that it’s going to all work out.

Then we immediately start on the tax cuts, and they’re going to be really fantastic, and I am looking forward to that one.  That one is going to be fun.  That one is going to be fun.  That’s called the wheelhouse.  We’re going to do a great job for companies.  We’re going to bring back — could be $3 to $5 trillion from overseas, money that can’t be brought back as part of our taxes.  (Applause.)

And it will lower the business tax rate from one of the highest in the world to one of the most competitive anywhere in the world.  Way, way down.  (Applause.)  We will do everything we can to lower business burdens and to make it easier for our businesses to thrive and compete.  But in exchange, they must hire, invest and grow in America.  We’re not giving them anything — okay?  They got to do that.  That’s the one thing.

We’re working with the automobile industry who have been played around with.  And I’m saying, we’ll do things for you, but you got to build new plants all over the place.  You got to build new plants in our country.  And they’re doing it, they’re starting.  It’s going to be amazing.

I have called this model, the model that you’ve been watching, the model that’s created so much value, the model of bringing back jobs and bringing back industry — I called it the American Model.  And this is the system that our Founders wanted.  Our greatest American leaders — including George Washington, Hamilton, Jackson, Lincoln — they all agreed that for America to be a strong nation it must also be a great manufacturing nation.  Have to make money.

The Republican platform of 1896 — more than a century ago — stated that: “Protection and reciprocity are twin measures of American policy and go hand in hand.” I mean, we have situations where other countries who have zero respect for our country — by the way, do you notice they’re starting to respect us a lot?  A lot.  A lot.  They’ll charge us 100 percent tax on some — 100 percent.  And we charge them nothing.  They’ll make it impossible through regulations for our product to be sold in their country, and yet they’ll sell their product routinely in our country.  Not going to happen anymore.  The word, “reciprocity” — they do it, we do it.  Who can complain about that?  Big difference.  You’re talking about big, big dollars, too, by the way.

The platform went on to say:  “We renew and emphasize our allegiance to the policy of protection, as the bulwark of American industrial independence and the foundation of American development and prosperity.”

Now, these were some of our greatest leaders, some of whom were great businesspeople.  They understood we have to do it.  And just so you understand, I’m a free trader, but free trade has been very unfair trade.  So I now say I’m a fair trader.  And I want to trade all over the world.  I don’t want to have it just here.  But we’re going to be beneficiaries from now on.  We’re not going to be the people that are taken advantage of any longer.  That’s been happening for decades and decades — not going to happen any longer.  (Applause.)  And they know it.

One country came in to see me recently — big country, good country, great person.  One of his first questions, sir, how much will you be charging us?  It’s like he knew.  He knew.  (Laughter.)  He knew.  They’ve been ripping us for years and he finally saw somebody that understands — so it’s one of those — (laughter.)  You don’t mind having a rich nation again and having lower taxes, do you?  Does anybody here mind?  Anybody mind, please stand up.  I know Dick Cheney will not stand on this one.  Please stand up.

As long as the GOP stands for “Made in the USA,” — remember in the old days, cars all said, “Made in the USA,” right?  We don’t have that too much anymore.  We’re going to have it again soon.  I’m telling all the car companies, put a big label, “Made in the USA” — it’s going to stand for quality.   Our party will have a very, very bright future.

It is fitting that we are in the National Building Museum.
Since its founding, the Republican Party has been a party of builders.  Many of the great builders are in this audience tonight.  Some of them I have to compete with and I really — actually, I don’t like very many of them.  (Laughter.)  Some of them I do.  Some of them I truly dislike a lot.  (Laughter.)

But now I like everybody.  I like all the great builders.  See, now it’s different.  (Laughter.)  Now we’re all on the same side, so I like — see the guy over there?  I couldn’t stand that guy for years.  He did a good job, but I couldn’t stand him.  Now I like you.  (Laughter.)

Our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, ran his first campaign for public office in 1832 — when he was only 23 years old.  He began by imagining the benefits a railroad could bring to his port [part] of Illinois — without ever having seen a steam-powered train.  He had no idea, and yet he knew what it could be.  Thirty years later, as President, Lincoln signed the law that built the first Transcontinental Railroad, uniting our country from ocean to ocean.  Great President.  Most people don’t even know he was a Republican, right?  Does anyone know?  Lot of people don’t know that.  We have to build that up a little bit more.  Let’s take an ad — let’s use one of those PACs.  (Laughter.)

Those PACs, you never know what the hell is going to come out of those PACs.  (Laughter.)  You think they’re friendly — although the best ad I ever had was one done against me by Hillary — it was so good, I said I hope she keeps running that ad.  (Laughter.)

Another great Republican President, Dwight Eisenhower, had a vision of a national infrastructure plan.  As an officer in the Army after World War I, he joined a military convoy that trekked across the nation to the Pacific Coast.  It traveled along the Lincoln Highway — called then the Lincoln Highway.  Its journey began by the South Lawn of the White House, at a monument known today as Zero Milestone.  Anybody know where that is?  The journey made a great impression on then young Eisenhower.  More than three decades later, as President, he signed the bill that created our great Interstate Highway System — once again uniting us as a nation.

Now is time for a new Republican administration, working with our Republican Congress, to pass the next great infrastructure bill.  (Applause.)   Our party must dream as big and as bold as Lincoln and Eisenhower.  Together, Republicans will lead America into our unbelievable future.  We have so much potential.  We have so much potential.  I see it now even more than I saw it in this great campaign — which turned out to be a movement, a movement like the world has never seen before, actually.

You know, it’s funny, I’ve said that so often, they don’t even correct me — the fake media.  They never correct me, because it’s true.  Oh, believe me, if it’s off by 100th of a percent, it’s like I end up getting Pinocchio’s, right?  They don’t even correct me.  One of the great movements of all time.  And it’s not my movement.  It’s a movement of the people.  It’s been something that’s really been very special.  I’m like a messenger.  I’m nothing more than a messenger.  (Applause.)  I’m a messenger.  I did a good job as a messenger, but I’m a messenger.  It’s been a lot of fun, too.

Imagine the breakthroughs that will breathe fresh life into forgotten places.  Picture the new roads that will carve pathways all across our land — and we need them.  And think of the new inventions that will lift up the sights of our nation.

Finally, as we imagine this new prosperity at home, let us also work to achieve real and enduring peace abroad.  (Applause.)  People don’t realize, I have to say, what a mess we inherited.  I’m telling you, you look at North Korea.  You look at the Middle East.  You look all over.  You look at the horrible, horrible, horrible Iran deal.  I still have not been able to figure out why anybody would have signed that deal.  I asked generals — I have them in my office — I say, General, please tell me why did they sign that deal.  Unbelievable.  But we’re going to straighten things out, folks.

The best Republican Presidents have not only been warfighters, but also peacemakers.  We will never hesitate to do what we must to keep us safe today, but we will always seek a more peaceful tomorrow.  We will, and we will succeed.  (Applause.)

If we stand for these things — safety, prosperity and peace — then there is no limit to what we can achieve:  A future where millions are lifted from welfare to work.  And they’re going to love it.  They’re going to love it.  They’re going to love waking up in the morning, going to work.  Communities thriving with jobs and surging with commerce.  Inner cities filled with new hope and new opportunity.  Schools where our children can learn free from violence and free from fear.  And new frontiers in science, technology and space that inspire the next generation of American youth.

All of this, and so much more, is possible.  Our country is great.  A new national pride is stirring our souls.  A new optimism is sweeping our land.  A new era of American greatness is just beginning.

Somewhere in America tonight, a child is born in poverty, looking up into the sky, and filling their heart with dreams — big, beautiful, bold dreams.  And if we make the right choices together, then no one will ever have to tell that child that their dreams will have to wait for another day, another year, or another decade.  Because the waiting now is over.  The time for action is now.  This is the moment when great deeds are done — and we will do those great deeds.  By putting our faith in the people, and by putting our trust in God, we will rise to this occasion like no one has ever risen before.  (Applause.)

Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Great people, great country.  Thank you so much.

We will prove worthy of this moment.  Anything is possible if we stand together, united and strong.  Not just as Republicans — but as great and unified Americans.  Join me in believing in this better and brighter future.  Join me in building this reality.  And join me in rededicating ourselves to the common good of this nation that we all love so much.  Together, we will defend our freedoms.  We will defend our people.  And we will defend our great and beautiful American flag.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.  Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. This is an incredible time for our country. I would say that our economy -- and many of you know that very well -- is doing better than it ever has done.

Our employment numbers are the best that they’ve been, perhaps ever, but certainly in recorded history. Reports just came out -- best in 44 years. Black unemployment is the lowest level in history. Hispanic unemployment, lowest level in history. Women unemployment, lowest level in 21 years. It started at 19, went up to 20; now it’s up to 21. Very soon it’s going to be in history.

We’re doing numbers like we’ve never seen, and we have some of the great industry leaders here today who I’m going to be introducing in a little while, quickly. And they’re going to do so much with NASA and so many of the great things we’re doing. But they understand full well what’s happening. We’ve never seen a period of time like this. The whole world is looking up to the United States, and the United States is respected again. There was a period of time we were not so respected, not so long ago. The United States is respected again.

If I might, I just wanted to make a brief statement on immigration and what’s happening. And I’ll say it very honestly and I’ll say it very straight: Immigration is the fault, and all of the problems that we’re having -- because we cannot get them to sign legislation; we cannot get them even to the negotiating table. And I say it’s, very strongly, the Democrats’ fault. They’re obstructing. They’re really obstructionists. And they are obstructing.

The United States will not be a migrant camp and it will not be a refugee holding facility. It won’t be. If you look at what’s happening in Europe, if you look at what’s happening in other places, we can’t allow that to happen to the United States -- not on my watch.

For the rest of the world, you look at everything that’s taking place -- pick up your newspapers this morning and you see. We want safety and we want security for our country. If the Democrats would sit down instead of obstructing, we could have something done very quickly -- good for the children, good for country, good for the world. It could take place quickly.

We could have an immigration bill. We could have -- child separation -- we’re stuck with these horrible laws. They’re horrible laws. What’s happening is so sad -- is so sad. And it can be taken care of quickly, beautifully, and we’ll have safety.

This could really be something very special. It could be something maybe even for the world to watch -- just like they’re watching our great economy, how it’s soaring. They could watch this.

We have the worst immigration laws in the entire world. Nobody has such sad, such bad, and actually, in many cases, such horrible and tough. You see about child separation; you see what’s going on there.

But just remember, a country without borders is not a country at all. We need borders. We need security. We need safety. We have to take care of our people. You take a look at the death and destruction that’s been caused by people coming into this country, without going through a process. We want a merit-based immigration system so that Boeing and Lockheed and all of the people -- Grumman -- all of the people that are here today, the heads of every company, so that you can hire people on a merit-based -- you know they’re coming in -- they’re people that came on merit, not based on a lottery, or not people that snuck across the border. And they could be murderers and thieves and so much else.

So we want a safe country, and it starts with the borders. And that’s the way it is.

Now I’d like to -- (applause) -- thank you. Thank you.

And again, we can do this very quickly if the Democrats come to the table. Everybody wants to do it. We want to do it more than they do. If they come to the table, instead of playing politics, we can do it very, very quickly.

So welcome to the third meeting of the National Space Council. I want to begin by recognizing our great Vice President, Mike Pence, who’s been so involved. And, Mike, I want to thank you for the incredible commitment to American leadership in space.

I also want to thank Secretary Wilbur Ross, Secretary Elaine Chao, Director Mulvaney, Director Coats, Administrator Bridenstine -- and congratulations, wherever you are. Where is he? Where is he? Congratulations. You better do a good job. (Laughter.) I’ll say you’re fired in two minutes. (Applause.) You have a lot of support, and you’ve loved this right from the beginning.

So good luck. Secretary Wilson, General Dunford, Undersecretary Thompson, Deputy Secretary Shanahan, and Acting Deputy Secretary Grady for being here today.

We’re honored to be joined by Congressmen Robert Aderholt, Brian Babin, and Dana Rohrabacher. Stand up, Congressmen. Please. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) And a special welcome to a strong, powerful, wonderful woman. Does a great job as governor of one of my favorite places in the world, Alabama -- Kay Ivey. Kay. (Applause.) Am I doing okay in Alabama?

I also want to recognize three true American heroes. The first woman to command a Space Shuttle, the great Eileen Collins. Stand up, Eileen. (Applause.) Great job. Great job. That’s a lot of time in space. Along with legendary Apollo astronauts Jack Schmitt and Buzz Aldrin. Buzz has been a friend of mine for a long time. Jack, thank you very much. Thank you. Great. (Applause.)

And I also have a list of some of the CEOs and chairmen and presidents of these incredible companies. Wes Bush, CEO of Northrup Grumman. Where’s Wes? Wes, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Wes. Gwynne Shotwell. Gwynne? Stand up, Gwynne. She’ll end up running for office. Right? (Applause.) Bob Smith, CEO of Blue Origin, who’s very active. Thank you, Bob. I hear you’re doing a great job. (Applause.) President and CEO, United Launch Alliance. That’s a combination of Boeing and Lockheed on the Space Launch System, SLS.

I don’t like when Boeing and Lockheed get together because the pricing only goes up, but that’s okay in this case. (Laughter.) I don’t know. I don’t love that stuff. We’re going to have to talk about that, your joining those two companies. Oh. (Laughter and applause.) Oh, boy. Look at Dennis. Dennis is so happy. I don’t like that stuff, Mike. (Laughter.)

Marillyn Hewson, who has done a fantastic job at Lockheed Martin. Marillyn? Marillyn. You have done. (Applause.) What do you think of that merger for the space -- what do you think? Look at them; they’re sitting together. Oh. Boeing. (Laughter.) Oh, it’s -- no wonder we don’t get the pricing we want. Huh?

Dennis Muilenburg, friend of mine. A great guy. The head of Boeing. And, boy, have you done a good job on all fronts -- commercial, military. Both of you. What a job you’ve both done. Thank you. (Applause.) Stay apart. Stay apart. Don’t get together. Stay apart.

And, you know, just a great group of other executives are here from the top companies. And it’s patriots like you that are the reason why America was first in flight, first to the moon, and why America will always be first in space. You know, before I got here, it wasn’t looking so good. (Applause.) Before we came in, I will tell you, they didn’t have such big plans for space. Now they have plans.

And it’s great, not only in terms of jobs and everything else; it’s great for the psyche of our country. This morning it came out that small business is the most optimistic it’s ever been in the history of our country. That’s pretty good. Now, I don’t know if they go back to 1776. I don’t know if they go back to, you know, areas of a little bit earlier, slightly, like by 100 years or 200 years. But I will tell you, I have never seen optimism like we have right now. So it’s a very exciting time.

I want to also say that when it comes to space, too often, for too many years, our dreams of exploration and discovery were really squandered by politics and bureaucracy, and we knocked that out. So important for our psyche, what’s you’re doing. It’s going to be important monetarily and militarily. But so important for right up here -- the psyche. We don’t want China and Russia and other countries leading us. We’ve always led -- we’ve gone way far afield for decades now, having to do with our subject today. We’re going to be the leader by far. We’re behind you a thousand percent.

America’s vital interest in space lost out to special interests in Washington, except, of course, for the senators and congressmen here. They would never do it. Right, Dana?

But all of that is changing. We know that. My administration is reclaiming America’s heritage as the world’s greatest space-faring nation. The essence of the American character is to explore new horizons and to tame new frontiers. But our destiny, beyond the Earth, is not only a matter of national identity, but a matter of national security. So important for our military. So important. And people don’t talk about it.

When it comes to defending America, it is not enough to merely have an American presence in space. We must have American dominance in space. So important.

Very importantly, I’m here by directing the Department of Defense and Pentagon to immediately begin the process necessary to establish a space force as the sixth branch of the armed forces. That’s a big statement.

We are going to have the Air Force and we are going to have the Space Force -- separate but equal. It is going to be something. So important. General Dunford, if you would carry that assignment out, I would be very greatly honored, also. Where’s General Dunford? General? Got it?

Let’s go get it, General. (Applause.) But that’s the importance that we give it. We’re going to have the Space Force.

One year ago, I revived the National Space Council and put exactly the right man in charge, and that’s our friend, Mike Pence. He feels very strongly about this. And in December, I signed a historic directive that will return Americans to the moon for the first time since 1972, if you can believe that. (Applause.)

Always remembering it’s about that, but it’s also about jobs and the economy. This is a great thing we’re doing.

This time, we will do more than plant our flag and leave our footprints. We will establish a long-term presence, expand our economy, and build the foundation for the eventual mission to Mars -- which is actually going to happen very quickly. And, you know, I’ve always said that rich guys seem to like rockets. So all of those rich guys that are dying for our real estate to launch their rockets, we won’t charge you too much. Just go ahead. If you beat us to Mars, we’ll be very happy and you’ll be even more famous. But they do like -- explain that. Where’s Eric? They do like rockets, for some reason, huh? They like those rockets.

But you know what? If -- as long as he’s -- as long as it’s an American rich person, that’s good. Okay? (Laughter.) They can beat us. (Applause.) We’ll save a little money, and they can beat us and we’re taking full credit for it. Don’t worry about it. (Laughter.)

But we’ll be setting aggressive timelines, challenging old ways of doing business, and we will be expecting real results. And we are making our incredible facilities -- okay? -- available to these people that have been doing so incredibly by themselves on rocketry. So you’re invited. The rent won’t be high.

I am instructing my administration to embrace the budding commercial space industry. We are modernizing out-of-date space regulations. They’re way out of date. They haven’t been changed in many, many years. And today we’re taking one more step to unleash the power of American ingenuity. In a few moments, I will sign a new directive to federal departments and agencies. They will work together with American industry to implement a state-of-the-art framework for space traffic management. But don’t let it get too out of control, please. We know about what’s going on with a lot of other rules and regulations.

By the way, we’ve set the all-time record in history of this country in cutting regulation. So when I hear about that, I get a little bit -- (applause) -- a little bit tenuous. Be careful. Don’t get too carried away.

But we have. We’ve cut more regulations than any administration, whether it’s four years, eight years, or sixteen years, in one case. We’ve cut more regulations than any other President in history. And I actually think that, along with the massive tax cuts, I think that the regulation cutting may have even had more of an impact on the economy. It’s been incredible.

We have regulation. We have a lot of regulation. We have good regulation. But you don’t need 20 years to get rejected from building a highway. We can reject you in two years or one year. We have it down from seventeen years, down to two. We expect to get it down to one. And if it’s not good, we’re going to reject. But it’s going to be a fast rejection. You’re not going to go an entire lifetime only to find it’s not going to be built.

Two previous administrations tried and failed to develop a system to deal with congested conditions in orbit. We are finally going to get it done. It’s going to happen fast. One year from now, our nation will mark an important milestone in human history: half a century since Americans first stepped off the Eagle and onto the moon. That was a big -- that was a big day. Right?

In that magnificent moment, the American astronaut embodied the incredible spirit of America: the confidence of a cowboy, the skill of a fighter pilot, the ambition of a scientist, and the courage of a true, true, brilliant, tough warrior. They bounded fearlessly into the unknown to be there first. They did the impossible because they knew that, together, there is absolutely nothing Americans can’t do. When we get together, there’s nobody even close.

Now we are ready to begin the next great chapter of American space exploration. This is a very important day. This is a very important gathering. A new generation of young people seeks to challenge -- really challenge hard -- to get their talent and their skill to work. And now we’re giving them a forum and a platform from which they can put that genius to work.

Legions of welders and metalworkers, scientists and engineers stand ready to build a powerful new rocket and gleaming new spaceships. And that goes with all of the other things that we’re building in our country

Our nation of pioneers still yearns to conquer the unknown, because we are Americans and the future belongs totally to us. Once more, we will launch intrepid souls blazing through the sky and soaring into the heavens. Once more, we will summon the American spirit to tame the next great American frontier. And once more, we will proudly lead humanity -- and that’s what it is, it’s humanity -- beyond the Earth and into those forbidden skies, but they will not be forbidden for long.

You’re very important people. You have a great, great contribution. What you’re doing has been incredible, but it will be even more incredible -- far more incredible -- because we are giving you a platform, the likes of which nobody has ever been given before. I am a big believer. You will go out there and you will take that frontier, which is largely unknown by man or woman, and you will learn everything there is to know about it. And what you’re doing is so important -- remember -- economically, militarily, scientifically. In every way, there is no place like space.

Good luck, General Dunford and the Joint Chiefs. I want to wish you a lot of luck with Space Force. But that shows how important it is. Congratulations on your tremendous success, but you’re going to have far more success right now.

Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. (Applause.)

Okay, everybody. Here’s a big one. Right? Would anybody like me not to sign this? (Laughter.) Is there anybody in this room? They would be in big trouble, I think.

(The directive is signed.) (Applause.)

Thank you, everybody. I have a few pens. Pass them around. Okay. Thank you very much, everybody. Congratulations. Great day. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you.